---
title: 'H-RISK with NoiseModelling: a QGIS plugin to predict environmental noise and estimate health risks'
tags:
  - QGIS
  - Python
  - Java
  - environmental noise
  - health risk
authors:
  - name: Junta Tagusari
    orcid: 0000-0002-3321-4473
    equal-contrib: true
    affiliation: "1" # (Multiple affiliations must be quoted)
affiliations:
 - name: Faculty of Engineering, Hokkaido University, Japan
   index: 1
date: 23 May 2023
bibliography: paper.bib

---

# Summary

Exposure to environmental noise can have significant health effects, including environmental sleep disorders, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, and stroke.
Accurately predicting sound levels and estimating health risks is critical to studying the exposure-response relationships and formulating effective policies at the local community level. 
However, such predictions typically require specialized knowledge, expensive commercial software, and extensive computational resources.
To address this issue, the author has developed a solution that integrates publicly available vector tile maps, open source environmental noise modeling modules called "NoiseModelling", and user interfaces implemented in QGIS through a dedicated QGIS plug-in.
This plug-in allows for direct execution of the calculation modules implemented in NoiseModelling, ensuring compatibility with future updates to NoiseModelling.
Users can easily access and manipulate geographic features, define receiver points, predict sound levels, and estimate health risks for any desired area using the plug-in.
For a relatively small computational domain, such as 1 km2, the volume of calculations is manageable and can be performed on a local computer.
This plug-in is invaluable for conducting epidemiological research on the health effects of environmental noise and for noise policy planning.
It facilitates the maintenance of a quiet environment, helps to mitigate noise problems, and aids in estimating the noise generated by new sources.

# Statement of need

The significance of addressing health risks associated with environmental noise cannot be overstated. 
Nighttime noise exposure can disturb sleep, disrupt homeostasis by altering blood flow, and serve as a risk factor for serious outcomes, including cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. 
For instance, recent studies have estimated that road traffic noise, the most prevalent source, contributes to approximately 10,000 deaths in Europe [@eea:2020] and 2,000 deaths in Japan [@tagusari:2021] due to ischemic heart disease.

To investigate the relationship between environmental noise and health effects, and to develop effective noise mitigation policies at the local community level, accurate prediction of sound levels is critical. 
In Europe, sound level prediction is mandated by the European Union Directive (2002/49/EC), which requires the use of a noise propagation model called CNOSSOS-EU [@kephalopoulos:2012]. 
However, achieving accurate predictions often requires specialized knowledge, expensive commercial software, and significant computational resources due to the extensive information required, such as sound source and obstacle geometries, traffic volumes, travel speeds, atmospheric conditions, and computational configurations.

To address these challenges, an open-source module called "NoiseModelling" [@bocher:2019] has been developed to allow transparent calculations and customization by the public. 
While NoiseModelling facilitates the prediction of sound levels using the CNOSSOS-EU model, users are still responsible for preparing the necessary information and extracting the results for further analysis.

To overcome these limitations, the author has developed a solution that integrates NoiseModelling into QGIS (The Open Source Geospatial Foundation, Oregon) through a dedicated QGIS plug-in called "H-RISK with NoiseModelling". 
This plug-in not only incorporates the functionality of NoiseModelling but also streamlines the retrieval and manipulation of geospatial features, the initialization of input data for NoiseModelling, and the estimation of health risks and affected populations using established exposure-response relationships [@whoeu:2018]. As a result, users can easily access and manipulate geographic features, define receiver points, predict sound levels, and estimate health risks for any desired area, including the impact of new sound sources.

# Functionality

The plugin has three main functionalities: (1) acquisition of the geospatial data, (2) calculation of sound levels using the modules of NoiseModelling, and (3) estimation of health risks and affected population.


## Acquisition of the geospatial data

Calculating road traffic noise requires geospatial data on roads, buildings and terrain.
This plug-in facilitates the retrieval of geospatial data from various sources, including OpenStreetMap (OpenStreetMap Foundation, Cambridge), the Shuttle Rader Topography Mission (National Aeronautics and Space Admission, Washington, D.C.) and the vector-tile map of Japan (Geospatial Information Authority of Japan, Tokyo).

Additionally, geospatial data on the population is needed to estimate the affected population.
Although global data is not available, the plug-in can retrieve 250-meter-meshed population data specifically for Japan from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan.

The plug-in automatically adds the attributes needed to calculate sound levels and ensures a seamless transition to the subsequent calculation process.

## Calculation of the sound levels

The creation of receivers and calculation of the sound levels are carried out using the NoiseModelling modules.
Receivers are placed at Delaunay grid points to generate sound-level contours and at building facades to estimate health risks.
To run the Java-based modules, the plug-in requires a Java implementation as well as NoiseModelling.


## Estimation of health risks and affected population

By integrating geospatial information on population, buildings, receivers and sound levels, the plug-in allows estimation of health risks and affected population for each building.
The estimation method meets the requirements of CNOSSOS-EU.
Presenting health risks instead of sound levels is essential for effective risk communication [@selamat:2021].

# References